all right let's talk about the app
database class so in the previous video
we created a tasks contract class that
defines the column names for our tasks
table now that might seem a little bit
over the top just to declare a few
string constants but as we create more
code you'll see why we've bothered
creating this in this video we'll create
the database class that will handle
creating our database and it'll also
provide the database object that our
content provider is going to need when
it comes to access the database so let's
start by creating the app database class
I'm going to right click on the package
new Kotlin file class and app database
being the name now I'm going to make
this internal because the only thing
that should ever use this class will be
our content provider another type of
internal class of database I have to
write curly braces in fact what I'll do
is I'll add a comment to that effect at
the start of the class I'm going to add
it here and we're going to say basic
database class for the application and
the only class that should use this is
that provider
and that providers going to be in left
and right square brackets
notice how they've got highlighted when
I type that in left to right square
brackets but more on that more on that
in a moment so when you start a comment
with a forward slash and two stars or
two asterisks --is that indicates what's
known as a doc comment also known as a
Kay doc and it's very similar to the
Java doc comments but some things such
as links have been simplified now you
may have noticed that this type of
comment in the Android Java source code
that we've looked at there's quite a
formal structure to these doc comments
and you may have noticed this when we
looked at documentation previously in
this course for a method slash function
so the content looks like a formatted
version of the comments in the source
code and there is a reason for that
that's because the documentation is
generated from those comments using the
Java doc tool now in Kotlin the same
applies but the tools called docker now
I would be discussing doc comments in
this course but I'll start using them to
comment some of the code that we write
now you forward loads of information
online including the Kotlin
documentation let's gonna check that out
so this here you can see that's
information about documenting Kotlin
code and actually I had a plan to show
you this Kay doc appearing when we use
the app database class in our code
but unfortunately the docker plugin for
Android studio is currently broken
hopefully they'll fix it soon but as of
the time I'm recording this video it
causes the Brett the Gradle build to
crash which means that you can't compile
and run your apps that's pretty severe
so for that reason we're not going to
use it so although we can't see it
working it's still a good idea to
include dot comments in your classes so
I'll just switch back to Android studio
now these don't these are K doc strings
are parsed by Android studio and
especially our warning over here we can
see if we hover over this app provided
in square brackets and also the warning
over here in the Gullah that we can't
resolve symbol web provider that's
because it hasn't been written yet so
don't worry about that warning at the
moment all right mckinney back to this
class this app database class will
extend
sico light open helper class that
Android provides to make using sequel
like database is easier so let's go
ahead and add that
so there : after the app databases space
and sequel Lite open helper parentheses
now we've got some errors at the moment
the sequel Lite open helper class has
some abstract methods that we need to
implement it's got no idea whether or
what the structure of our database
should be for example so it leaves it up
to our class to implement the oncreate
function but before implementing that
function and also the own upgrade
function there's another error because
the sequel our open helper class needs
some arguments in its constructor you
can see when I hover over to that
warning or that arrow rather and big
makes it clear that till we need to do I
do that so it needs some arguments to
its constructor so those are a context
the name and version of our database it
also something called a cursor Factory
now the database name and version can be
declared as constants and I'll also add
a constant tag for logging so let's go
ahead and do that alright those above
the class definition here my private
Const Val tag is equal to in double
quotes app base then next we'll get
private Const Val database underscore
name in uppercase which unsurprisingly
is our database name and it was tasks
timer dot DB and we also won't want a
constant for the version private Krantz
Val database canonical version again in
uppercase equals three and now that
we've done that we can expand on the
class definition line on line 19
so let's first add a constructor for app
database so after the app database type
constructor then in parentheses we're
going to talk context in lower case
colon contexts with a couple capital C
which is using the Android or coming
from Android content and if we scroll up
we can see now that Talat import has
been added
then over to the right for the sequel
Lite open helper we need to pass those
parameters now so
first one is going to be context let's
add that next we want to pass the
database name next we're going to pass a
null and I'll talk about that shortly or
the cursor Factory and lastly the
database underscore version so let's fix
one of those errors now if we have over
here now it's now just complaining about
the fact we haven't implemented the
methods all right so what we've done
here is when our app database instance
is created you'll be passed a context
now that's needed as the first argument
in the sequel Lite open help and helper
constructor which we've now added the
database name is the second argument is
obvious and we'll see why we need a
version later which was the fourth
argument later in the course but for the
cursor factory the third argument I've
specified null you can create your own
class to create custom cursors if you
wish and one reason for doing that is if
you wanted to log the sequel queries
before they're executed for example but
the cursor class included in Android is
fine so we're just passing null for that
third argument so that we can use that
all right so at this point I'm going to
do something slightly strange now and I
don't recommend you doing this in
production code for reasons that will
become apparent shortly it'll be useful
to see when a new instance of this class
is created to do that what I'm going to
do was add in an it block that does
nothing more than log when it's called
and that's going to be very useful for
us to see what's going on but as I
mentioned isn't a good idea to use in
your apps so we're going to go ahead and
add this init block sorting it then left
or right curly brace then within there
we just can to add a log and locked up D
parentheses tag comma in double quotes
app database : initializing okay now
we've still got that error because we
haven't implemented those abstract
classes so let's get into what to do to
generate those for us so we'll implement
both on create and on and on upgrade now
the sequel Lite open helper class can do
a lot for us but it can't know the
sequel commands that
needed to create our database nor how to
upgrade it from one version to another
so in other words we have to provide the
implementation of those two methods and
that's why they're abstracting the
sequel Lite open helper class alright so
were implemented at the moment empty
versions are both of those that have
only got to do in there and when an
instance of this class is created the
code in its superclass which is sequel
Lite open helper will check to see if
the database already exists you know if
it doesn't exist our one create function
will be called now this is where we'll
execute the sequel statements to create
the tables views and other objects in
our database at the moment though we're
focusing on the tasks table and we
created the sequel for that in the
previous video I'm just going to paste
that too in us a comment so we've got a
reference point for the sequel Coby
ultimately going to be creating alright
and I'll just delete them to do there
and paste that in us a comment all right
so what we're going to do next is build
up the necessary string to create this
sequel statement but let's work on that
in the next video